[Music]
hi there I had this friend who never
seems to stop traveling tired ever just
arrived in insert beautiful exotic
location here feeds I asked her if she
either owns a gold mine or knows some
secrets on how to find cheap airfare to
my delight it turns out to be the second
option here's what she does play with
countries and currencies before you
booked your tickets check if they cost
less on some other countries version of
the airline website you can often get
the same class ticket on the same flight
for cheaper if you choose to view the
price in a weaker national currency then
say dollars or Euros a VPN can help you
hide your actual location or relocate
you to some other country choose the
cheapest payment method when it comes to
the payment stage many people just click
on the first available option without
looking at how much the processing fee
will be often using online money
transfer is cheaper than paying with
your credit card however if you're
traveling internationally and want to
earn some flyer points and miles you'd
better stick to your credit card book
your tickets at the right time there's
no such thing as the perfect day of the
week to book your trip it's a myth
instead there is a perfect time interval
and it's six to eight weeks before your
departure date buying for in advance
like five months before the flight will
be pricier buying last-minute can
sometimes mean a great deal but in most
cases airlines will raise the price by
that they know if you really have to go
so soon you'll pay whatever it takes
be flexible with your flight dates you
can't shift a trip back home for some
holidays or a major sporting event but
it will cost you way more than flying
off season if you can be flexible with
dates just open the calendar in your
favorite travel aggregator and see how
you can shift the dates a bit to save
some cash in general flying in the
middle of the week is cheaper than on
weekends
the time of day matters - it'll normally
cost you less to take off early in the
morning or late at night
no one likes 3:00 a.m. wake up's and red
eyes right experiment with your
destination let's say you want to go to
Amsterdam but the tickets are through
the roof open the flight routes map and
see if you can get a better deal for
other airports within a three hour ride
you can just catch a bus or train arrive
in Amsterdam a couple hours later and
see an extra country on the way pick the
right airport large cities typically
have more than one Airport
don't fall for a famous name where
everybody flies instead look around and
see if there's a better deal for tickets
to let's say London Luton instead of
Heathrow mix and match Airlines if your
travel aggregator or common sense is
telling you a flight with a stopover
somewhere on the way will be cheaper
than a direct one book it it's always
safer to do the booking directly from
the airline website so you might have to
type in all your information twice but
it's worth it
low-cost airlines for example don't
normally do long-haul flights but you
can book a ticket halfway with a regular
airline and then buy the next one from
that budget line try the hidden city
trek for some reason a direct flight
from point A to point B can be pricier
than a trip from point A to point C with
point B is a stopover spot if that's the
case book it and just get off at point B
also known as the hidden city check the
flight route before you book how long
the flight is going to take and how much
you'll have to pay for it doesn't depend
on the distance but on the route your
plane will fly it can be more expensive
to fly over certain countries or
airspace and in some cases even
forbidden for airlines of this or that
origin if a flight has to take a detour
then it'll be more expensive you might
even have to pay extra for check bags
delete your cookies or history when
looking for the best deal have you ever
noticed how ticket prices go up when you
come back to check them after a while
this is because websites can store your
search data and offer you a more
expensive price for the destination
you're interested in they do this to
pressure you into buying the ticket
faster before the price gets even higher
use multiple search engines some travel
aggregators don't list certain low-cost
carriers or websites that aren't in
English check a few options before you
do the final booking to get the best
deal don't ignore points and miles
programs spend an extra minute and sign
up for a travel rewards card I know you
hear about them all the time but they
really do work airlines love loyal
customers and reward them with free
hotel stays events other travel perks
and of course huge discounts or even
free flights just curious do you collect
bonus miles let me know in the comments
below
set up a price alert most travel
aggregators have an alarm bell icon turn
it on give them your email and you'll be
personally notified when the price for
your itinerary goes down this works well
if you have plenty of time before the
trip or make regular flights to the same
places follow Airlines on social media
this way you can get some insider deals
or a secret offers you can also sign up
for their mailing list if you don't mind
some extra notifications in your inbox
find out if you can get a flight pass
for their beloved loyal customers many
airlines offer flight passes that are
much cheaper than individual tickets you
can check with major lines in your
region or some international carriers if
they have this kind of deal
use any discount you qualify for it
differs country to country and airline
to airline but most offer good discounts
to students and people under 26 seniors
and other categories just check out if
you belong to any of them check all the
terms and conditions when flying low
cost low cost airlines do offer great
deals but it's better to double check if
luggage or even carry-on is included
check-in can also cost you if you
decided to do it at the airport
instead of online there might be some
extra hidden fees you couldn't even
imagine plus low cost carriers mostly
fly to secondary airports so add the
price of ground transportation to your
ticket fare and see if it's still
cheaper than regular airlines try
booking two one-way tickets instead of a
roundtrip
it's normally cheaper to book a
round-trip but there are those rare
occasions when two one-way tickets will
cost you less so price out both options
or even check out two different airlines
before you book your flight watch out
for mistake fares no system works
perfectly 100 percent of the time so a
zero can accidentally drop on a $1,500
ride or all the tickets to some
destination can suddenly become a fixed
low price if you see something like that
online book it but wait for an official
booking reference from the airline
before you pay for a hotel room or
concert tickets on the other end of the
ride the airline might cancel your deal
and finally here's an idea for the most
adventurous travelers go plane
hitchhiking it's been a thing since the
60s of course you can't hitchhike on a
passenger Boeing 737 but small private
plane pilots do take passengers on board
for a minimal fuel fee there are even
special flight sharing online platforms
where you can find pilots or passengers
to travel with and if you're spontaneous
as can be
try wandering around a small town
Airport you can get a free ride to
someplace you might have never
and heard up sounds like fun hey if you
learn something new today then give the
video a like and share it with a friend
and here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life